# Generating-high-Resolution-Accurate-Seamless-data-using-Point-Surface-fusion

Surface soil moisture (SSM) has considerable impact in land-atmosphere exchanges of water and energy. However, due to the inherent deficiencies of remotely sensed data (e.g., cloud contamination), neither of current algorithms alone can provide daily and seamless SSM at field scale (i.e., 30 m). To explore this research gap, we proposed a novel SSM fusion framework of Generating high Resolution, Accurate, Seamless data using Point-Surface fusion (GRASPS) based on multiple remotely sensed, reanalysis, and in-situ datasets. First, 30 m seamless continuous SSM correlated variables (land surface temperature, NDVI, Albedo) were generated by enhanced spatial and temporal adaptive reflectance fusion model (ESTARFM). Then, downscaled auxiliary variables and other background variables were input into a deep learning model to produce 30 m daily and seamless SSM. To further improve the downscaling accuracy, a pixel classification based bias correction method was developed. This proposed GRASPS method was validated over a densely distributed in-situ soil moisture sensor network (HOAL) in Austria. The average Pearson correlation coefficient (PCC), root mean squared error (RMSE), unbiased RMSE (ubRMSE), Bias, and mean absolute error (MAE) over all validation sites for the downscaled SSM achieved 0.78, 0.048 m^3 m^(-3), 0.033 m^3 m^(-3), -0.001 m^3 m^(-3), and 0.041 m^3 m^(-3), respectively. After bias correction, the RMSE, ubRMSE, Bias, and MAE at validation sites further decreased by 13%, 7%, 22%, and 18%, respectively. The proposed method maximizes the potential of data fusion and deep learning in generating field scale seamless SSM, which is promising for fine-scale studies and applications in agricultural, hydrological, and environmental domains.

Currently, the manuscript is under review. More information and results will be released soon.
